# Notes

* Identity service is a basic project
* Current products: basic access (easy to log?)
* What is the reason architecturally that you are assigning an identity to an agent?
* How are you enabling a non-human identity?
  * What are the attributes you wish to give it?
  * IAM: by assigning an identity (traditionally to a human), you instill access/roles/attributes
* Toughest part: identity in an agentic framework are dependent on the degree of autonomy
  * Low autonomy = low identity attributes (e.g. they spin up and spin down frequently)
  * High autonomy = high identity attributes (long-lived). Acting on a users’ behalf.
    * Can do ABC but not XYZ without human approval
  * Auditing frameworks don’t necessarily allow for the combination of human and non-human
    * Isn’t this already captured with service accounts?  (maybe not, service accounts are only non-human)
  * Do not want to inhibit open source or enterprise components
* Evolution of auditing
  * Simple network events -> ELK -> SIEM
  * One actor -> two actors? More? (Multi-agent systems)
* Does an analyst want to analyze individual agents? A mesh of agents?
  * Depends on how many degrees of freedom / autonomy the agent has?
  * Parallels to APM and microservice architectures? (that have views to analyze both individual services and the graph of services)
  * Log from one agent / trace data between agents?
* Privacy
  * Collection of auditable events represents a disclosure of information
  * Trail of breadcrumbs to a private activity?
  * We may not know what the agent is doing in the identity service project?
    * Even tool calls might be identifiable like other metadata
    * We will want to audit tool arguments too, which are definitely not privacy preserving
  * VCs — cloud security alliance, can be used for privacy-preserving characteristics. Auditing: was this an authorized event
    * Where do we envision needs for IAM that are more than a traditional service provider or cert issuer?
    * Zero-trust: limits how much one agent discloses to another agent

## Decisions

* We should explore how we integrate with distributed tracing for agents
* Explore an auditing standard or spec for incorporating both agents and human identities as actors (needs to handle all the combinations)
* How do we integrate with standards of interest?
  * MCP, A2A, etc.
* Bring security and auditing frameworks to those bodies (NIST, banking regulations, etc.)
* We will meet biweekly to keep cadence with the broader WG.
