# Notes

* We have connections with the Otel working group (TODO)
* OASF
    * More about classifying Agent skills than agentic events
    * Maybe not an immediate connection
* OCSF
    * Captures events for security practitioners
    * Might need more agentic
* What are looking for in this working group?
    * Customers frustrated with too many standards they need to adopt
        * Example: accounting firm, RAG on tax docs.  Only these specific people should respond to it.  But don’t know the best practices, and would find guidance helpful.
        * Lots of startups around deploy-stack for management of MCP servers, LLMs, etc., but what are the blind spots?
        * Example: customer wrapping APIs with an internal MCP server.  Reason: before, they needed to train their support team on how to read audit logs, now, they have them ask the chatbot.
    * Guidance vs a specification?
        * Proposal: we should build out an SDK
        * Contribute it back to Otel?
        * Challenge: making something overly broad vs narrow and specific to start with
        * Easier exercise: what vs how?
        * But — we might close the door on certain paths on what we want to audit
* Observe Discussion
    * SDK: pure SDK for traces and spans for Otel
    * Poirot: creates metrics around traces
    * Integrations with LangChain, e.g. as well as MCP servers
* Personas
    * Higher priority - Identity
        * Compliance Professionals
        * Security Professionals
        * Support Teams (audit-logs-as-training-data)
    * Lower priority (not a part of the identity working group)
        * Agent and Agentic Resource Developers
    * How are personas going to be consuming this?
        * Example: how can they use LLMs to cut down event noise
        * Will it be these human personas consuming audit logs or their agents?
* Standards
    * SET (security event tokens)
    * CADF (cloud auditing data federation)
    * CEF (common event format)
    * SSF (shared signals framework) — RISC / CAEP
    * Microsoft extension to SCIM
    * Be wary of https://xkcd.com/927/

# Action Items

1. Nailing down persona / use cases
2. What are the data points that we need recorded
3. Look at existing standards & frameworks, compare to 2. above
4. Converge: pursue these tracks
 
# Logistics

Next meeting will be 2025-01-13 because of the holidays.  See everyone in the new year!